.TH hfi1stats 8
'Copyright (C) 2013, 2014, 2015. Intel Corporation. All rights reserved.
'Copyright (C) 2006, 2007, 2008, 2009. QLogic Corporation. All rights reserved.
'Copyright (C) 2004, 2005, 2006.  PathScale, Inc.  All rights reserved.
'This is not free software.
'Redistribution or modification is prohibited without the prior express
'written permission of Intel Corporation.
.SH NAME
hfi1stats \- show counters and statistics for Omni-Path
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B hfi1stats
[-c secs [-o]] [-e] [-i unit#[:port#]] [-j] [-v] [-z] [-1] [-E excludes]
.SH DESCRIPTION
Displays board counters and driver statistics obtained from the
.BR hfi1 (4)
driver.  The first group displayed are the driver statistics, the
second group are the board counters.  Driver statistics are more
subject to change from version to version than the counters.
.TP 12
.BI "-c " seconds
After displaying normal output, check for changes every
.I seconds
and then display changed fields, one per line (accepts decimal
fractions as well as whole numbers).  In this mode, if the
.BR SIGHUP ,\  SIGINT ,\ or\  SIGTERM
signal is received, any final deltas will be printed and the program
will exit.
.TP 12
.B -o
Valid only with -c, prints
.IR o nly
the changes, and does not print the initial values.
.TP 12
.B -e
Only display counters and driver statistics that can be considered
to be errors.   This can be combined with the -c option, to watch only
error value deltas.
.TP 12
.B -E \ exclude1,exclude2...
Exclude stats, counters, and portcounters that match any of these strings.
Useful when looking for a subset of the information, particularly with the
.B -c
option.
.TP 12
.BR -i \ unit#[:port#]]
port#
Only print port counter info for this HFI unit, and optionally
port# .  Unit numbers start at 0, port# start at 1.  The default is to
print the information for all units and ports.
It is an error if the unit (and port if specified) are not found.
.TP 12
.B -j
Print stats and counters in JSON format.
.TP 12
.B -v
verbose; display some fields that are normally suppressed if they
contain zeros.
.TP 12
.B -z
Only print stats and counters with a non-zero value.
.TP 12
.B -1
Print initial values one per line, similar to
.B -c
output format.
.P
.B hfi1stats

shows both driver statistics and counters in the Omni-Path HFI device(s).
The driver statistics are reset if the driver is reloaded, but
the device counters are not reset on driver reload (they are readonly, and count up
until the chip is reset (by reboot or powercycle), and then wrap
back to 0 and keep counting.  The values up through the line
starting with
.BI Unit 
are the driver statistics, the rest are counters from the Omni-Path HFI devices.
Counters are shown in 2 sections, the first section are values that
are global to each unit, the second (and third, for boards with two
ports) are the counters specific to a port.
.P
Fields whose values can grow to large values in fairly short time periods
(days) will be shown with values divided by 1000 and ending with
.B K
when displaying the current values, in order to preserve a columnar display.
This is not done for the single columnt output format
.RB ( -1
) and 
.RB ( -c deltas).
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR hfi (4)
.br
Additional documentation is available on the Intel website:
.br
http://www.intel.com/omnipath
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright (C) 2013, 2014, 2015. Intel Corporation. All rights reserved.
.br
Copyright (C) 2006, 2007, 2008, 2009. QLogic Corporation. All rights reserved.
.br
Copyright (C) 2004, 2005, 2006.  PathScale, Inc.  All rights reserved.
.SH AUTHOR
Intel Corporation.
