.TH hfi1 4
'Copyright (C) 2013, 2014, 2015. Intel Corporation. All rights reserved.
'Copyright (C) 2006, 2007, 2008, 2009, 2011. QLogic Corporation. All rights reserved.
'Copyright (C) 2004, 2005, 2006.  PathScale, Inc.  All rights reserved.
'This is not free software.
'Redistribution or modification is prohibited without the prior express
'written permission of Intel Corporation.
.SH NAME
hfi1 \- device driver for Intel Omni-Path Architecture host fabric interface
.SH DESCRIPTION
The hfi1 driver is responsible for board initialization, handling interrupts (mostly
for errors),
mediating access to the board for user programs, and handling memory mapping.
It also provides the verbs interface for OpenFabrics.
.P
The software interface to the driver is provided through the
.IB libverbs ,
.IB libibumad ,
and
.IB libpsm2
libraries.
.SH MODULE OPTIONS
The hfi1 driver supports several module options that can be set via
the
.BR modprobe (8)
or
.BR insmod (8)
command line options. See the output of the following command:
.RS
modinfo -p hfi1
.RE
For information on the module option parameters see the
.B Intel Omni-Path Architecture User's Guide.
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
Error messages and important informational messages are printed
with the label
.IB hfi1
and the PCIe bus identifier such as:
.RS
hfi1 0000:01:00.0: hfi1_0: IB0:1 got a lid: 0x1
.RE
Interfaces are displayed with the prefix hfi1_#, where
.I #
is the unit number (e.g. 0)
.BR hfi1_0
.RE
.SH SEE ALSO
.IB modprobe (8),
.IB insmod (8)
.br
Additional documentation is available on the Intel website:
.br
http://www.intel.com/infiniband
.SH FILES
.br
/dev/hfi1* - device files
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright (C) 2013, 2014, 2015. Intel Corporation. All rights reserved.
.br
Copyright (C) 2006, 2007, 2008, 2009. QLogic Corporation. All rights reserved.
.br
Copyright (C) 2004, 2005, 2006.  PathScale, Inc. All rights reserved.
.SH AUTHOR
Intel Corporation.
