.TH hfi1_pkt_test 8
'Copyright (C) 2013, 2014, 2015. Intel Corporation. All rights reserved.
'Copyright (C) 2006, 2007, 2008, 2009. QLogic Corporation. All rights reserved.
'Copyright (C) 2006.  PathScale, Inc.  All rights reserved.
'This is not free software.
'Redistribution or modification is prohibited without the prior express
'written permission of Intel Corporation.
.SH NAME
hfi1_pkt_test \- Diagnostic test for link and bandwidth for HFIs
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B hfi1_pkt_test
[-h]
.br
.B hfi1_pkt_test
-r [-f] [-u] [-d level] [-D device]
.br
.B hfi1_pkt_test
-L LID -P Port [-c count] [-s size] [-p] [-e] [-d level] [-D device]
.br
.B hfi1_pkt_test
-B
.SH DESCRIPTION
.P
.B hfi1_pkt_test
is a simple program that can be used to test the InfiniBand link and bandwidth
between two HFIs, or, with an InfiniBand loopback connector, with a single HFI.
It runs in either ping-pong mode (send a packet, wait for a reply, repeat),
stream mode (send packets as quickly as possible, receive responses as they
come back), or local buffer write mode (write to the HFI send buffer, but do
not send any packets).
.P
On completion, the sending side prints statistics on the packet bandwidth,
showing both the payload bandwidth, and the total bandwidth (including
InfiniBand and HFI headers).   The bandwidth 
is displayed in MB(10^6)/second, not MiB (2^20)/second.
Both payload and total bandwidth (includes InfiniBand and HFI headers)
are displayed.
.P
For stream mode (the default), the bandwidth is calculated using the
time from first packet sent, until last response arrives (the sender will pause
occasionally if it gets too many packets ahead of the receiver).
.P
For pingpong
mode, the bandwidth is calculated by averaging the time from sending
the packet until it's response comes back, across all packets sent,
and dividing by 2 (that is, the unidirectional bandwidth).
For both cases, the first few packets are not included in the calculation,
they are used to get into a steady state.   The processor cycle counter
is used, in order to get high precision time stamps.
.P
For buffer write mode, the bandwidth is calculated by measuring the time it
takes to write as many bytes as possible to the HFI’s PIO send buffer.  The
number of bytes written is bounded by the size of the PIO send buffer: if the
send buffer is configured for N bytes, N-64 bytes are written.  This mode
effectively measures PCI Express write performance to the HFI independently
from the network.
.P
There are three modes of operation, with some options only allowed in some modes.
Either the
.BR -B ,
.B -r
or the
.B -L
and 
.B -P
options must be given, but not mixed.   The count, size, and mode
options are valid only on the sending side.  The full reply and
urgent options are valid only on the receiving side, but cannot
be used together.   For network bandwidth
performance testing, both a sender and a responder are required.
.TP 12
.BI -h
Display a short multi-line help message.
.TP 12
.BI -d \ number
Set the debug level for the driver. The value is a bitmap of debug
levels. Note that setting high debug levels
can render the system almost unusable due to high verbosity.
.TP 12
.BI -U \ unit
Specify an alternate device unit to use. For example, to use
.IR /dev/hfi1 , specify `1'. The default is 0.
.TP 12
.BI -r 
Runs in responder mode.   Waits forever for packets,
then sends them back to the LID and port that sent them.
It never exits, and so must be terminated with the
.IR kill (1)
command, or a keyboard interrupt.
.TP 12
.BI -B 
Runs a buffer write performance test, to check how fast data can be written into the HFI buffers.
No packets are sent on the fabric.   No responder process is required.
.TP 12
.BI -f 
The responder will respond with the full packet.   In streaming mode,
this results in simultaneous bidirectional traffic.   The default
is that the responder replies with just an ack packet (no payload).
.TP 12
.BI -u
The responder will wait for the receipt of packets with the urgent bit
set.  The default is to wait for the receipt of any packet.  Using
this option also tells the receiver to not to respond to any packet.
This option is mainly useful for unit testing of urgent receive.
.TP 12
.BI -L \ LID
Set the destination HFI LID.  This would normally be the
LID printed by the responder.
.TP 12
.BI -C \ context
Set the destination HFI context.  This would normally be the
context printed by the responder.
.TP 12
.BI -c \ number
Specifies how many packets are to be sent.  Default value is 100000.
.TP 12
.BI -s \ size
Sets the packet size to be used.   This must be a value between 0 and the
maximum MTU supported by the HFI (10240).  The default is 2048.  It must be a
multiple of 4 (if not, it is rounded down).
.TP 12
.BI -p
Run in pingpong mode, sending one packet, waiting for the response,
and repeating.   The default is to run in stream mode.   For this option,
the bandwidth reported is about 1/2 of the unidirectional bandwidth
if the
.B -f
option is used on the responder.  In the default mode it approaches the ideal
unidirectional pingpong bandwidth as packet size increases.
.TP 12
.BI -e
Exit sending loop if we do not responses, rather than continuing to send at
a reduced rate until acks are received (sending at a reduced rate is done
to handle the case where the receiver somehow loses packets, to attempt to
continue when congestion is causing packet loss).
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR hfi1 (4), hfi1_pkt_send (8)
.br
Additional documentation is available on the Intel website:
.br
http://www.intel.com/infiniband
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright (C) 2013, 2014, 2015. Intel Corporation. All rights reserved.
.br
Copyright (C) 2006, 2007, 2008, 2009. QLogic Corporation. All rights reserved.
.br
Copyright (C) 2006 PathScale, Inc.  All rights reserved.
.SH AUTHOR
Intel Corporation.
