.TH hfi1_control 8
'Copyright (C) 2014, 2015 Intel Corporation. All rights reserved.
'This is not free software.
'Redistribution or modification is prohibited without the prior express
'written permission of Intel Corporation
.SH NAME
hfi1_control \- Set and display HFI parameters for diagnostic purposes
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B hfi1_control
[-u unit#] [-b [on|off]] [-E <event>] [-D <event>] [-m <debug mask>] [-r/-R
<cap>[,<cap>]] [-t/-T <cap>[,<cap>]] [-acedfhiLsSv]
.SH DESCRIPTION
Other than the
.B -i
option, this script requires root permissions.
.P
This is a shell script that can be used to manipulate various
parameters for the HFI driver. Many of them are intended to be
used only when diagnosing problems, and may require special
system configurations. Use of the options may require restarting
the driver or utility programs in order to recover from incorrect
parameters.
.P
Most of the functionality is accessed via the /sys filesystem.
.TP 12
.BI -a
List all available HFI tracing events. This option will show a hiarachical
view of all the supported/available HFI tracing events.
.TP 12
.BI -c
Clear any accumulated content in the kernel tracing buffer. If the kernel
tracing buffer isn't being "followed" (see
.B -f
option), content is accumulated and not cleared between reads of the
tracing buffer.
.TP 12
.BI -d
Disable kernel tracing. This turns off tracing for the entire kernel
and all modules regardless of any enabled tracepoints.
.TP 12
.BI -D \ event
Disable a specific HFI tracing event. Multiple
.B -D
options on the same command line are supported to disable multiple
tracing events.
.TP 12
.BI -e
Enable kernel tracing. This turns kernel tracing on. Only tracing event
previously enabled will be displayed.
.TP 12
.BI -E \ event
Enable a specific HFI tracing event. Multiple
.B -E
options on the same command line are supported to enable multiple tracing
events. After processing all the
.B -E
and
.B -D
command line options, if there are any trace points to be enabled the
global kernel tracing (
.B -e
) is enabled, by default.
.TP 12
.BI -f
Follow the kernel tracing buffer. This option will cause the script to
continuously read the tracing buffer and display content as it appears in
the buffer.
.IP "" 12
Unlike the
.B -s
option, once the tracing content has been read from the kernel tracing buffer
and displayed, it is removed from the buffer. Therefore, it can not be re-read
again.
.TP 12
.BI -s
Display the content of the kernel trace buffer. This is a non-desctructibe read.
The content of the buffer remains in the buffer until it is cleared (see the
.B -c
option).
.TP 12
.BI -S
Display the list of capabilities supported by the driver.
.TP 12
.BI -L
Display status (enabled/disabled) of all HFI tracing points.
.TP 12
.BI -u \ number
Specify the unit number on which to operate.
.TP 12
.BI -i
List useful information about the driver, and each unit, including
LID, GUID, serial number, and status. If the link is not in an operational
state, the output will contain the string
.BR [IB\ link\ not\ Active] .
By default, information about all adapters is displayed. Use the
.B -u
option to limit to one HFI.
.TP 12
.BI -v
Verbose; when combined with
.BR -i ,
additional information is displayed about the adapter.
It is otherwise ignored.
.TP 12
.B -h
Display a usage message and exit.
.TP 12
.BI -m \ number
Set the debug level for the driver.   The value is a bitmap of debug
levels.   These messages are typically displayed using the
.I cat /sys/kernel/debug/tracing/trace_pipe
command.  Common bit values would be:
.RS 12
.IP 0x0
default, just errors and warnings, which can also be displayed with the
.BR dmesg (1)
command.
.IP 0x2
debug messages, not too verbose, of somewhat general interest
.IP 0x20
initialization messages of various kinds, driver, hardware, and process
.IP 0x200000
OmniPath link level debugging, can be extremely verbose.
.PP
For further information on debug levels, see the
.B HFI User's Guide.
.RE
.TP 12
.BI -b \ flag
Blinks LEDs to identify board. Flag is set to
.B on
or
.BR off.
.RE
.TP 12
.BI -C
Show currently enabled driver capabilities.
.RE
.TP 12
.BI -r/-R \ cap
Disable a capability (or a list of capabilities) from the list of currently enabled
ones.
.B -r
applies to capabilities for user contexts, while
.B -R
is for kernel contexts. To disable multiple capabilities, use a comma-separated list.
.B HF
.RE
.TP 12
.BI -t/-T \ cap
Enable a capability (or a list of capabilities).
.B -t
applies to user contexts, while
.B -T
is for kernel contexts. To enable multiple capabilities, use a comma-separated list.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR hfi1 (4)
.br
Additional documentation is available on the Intel website:
.br
http://www.intel.com/omnipath
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright (C) 2014, 2015. Intel Corporation. All rights reserved.
.SH AUTHOR
Intel Corporation.
.TP 12
