.TH hfi1_pkt_send 8
'Copyright (C) 2013, 2014, 2015. Intel Corporation. All rights reserved.
'Copyright (C) 2006, 2007, 2008. QLogic Corporation. All rights reserved.
'Copyright (C) 2006.  PathScale, Inc.  All rights reserved.
'This is not free software.
'Redistribution or modification is prohibited without the prior express
'written permission of Intel Corporation.
.SH NAME
hfi1_pkt_send \- Diagnostic packet sender for Intel Fabric link and HFIs
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B hfi1_pkt_send
[-h ]
.br
.B hfi1_pkt_send
[-U Unit#] [-L LID] [-C Context] [-Q QP] [-d lvl] [-c #] [-k] [-r] [-w] packet_file
.br
.SH DESCRIPTION
.P
.B hfi1_pkt_send
is intended to allow arbitrary packets to be sent on an InfiniBand link.
Packets are described in a file containing
hexadecimal data. The file is intended to be human-readable. Each pair of 
hexadecimal digits is sent as one octet.
Multi-octet values (e.g. 12345678) are sent in the order left-to-right,
but simply by taking two octets at a time, so "123 456" will send four
octets: 12 03 45 06.
.P
Packet files can also contain special "macro" codes to generate various
headers, detailed in
.BR hfi_pkt_files (5)
although the most commonly used are:
.P
.B LRH
to insert a Local Route Header using the command-line specified DLID,
and assuming a BTH follows.
.br
.B LRHR
to insert a Local Route header as above, but for a
.B raw
packet, that is, one without a BTH.
.P
A '.' in the first column of a line marks the end of a packet, so 
multiple packets can be supplied by one file.
The period ending a packet can be followed by a
.B B
to force it to be ended with an
.B EBP
regardless of its contents, or an
.B I
will corrupt the ICRC (invariant CRC), if the packet contains one.
.B H 
will suppress hardware insertion of the HCRC into the KDETH header (if that
header is present), allowing the HCRC value to be specified in the input
packet file.
These may be combined, e.g.:
.B .IH
will corrupt ICRC and suppress HCRC
.P
Any text after a
.B #
character is taken as a "comment to end of line", so packet files can
contain explanations.
.P
If a QP is not specified, hfi1_pkt_send constructs a QP suitable for use with
KDETH (PSM) packets in the following manner:
.TP 8
        DestQP = (SendBthQP << 16) | remote_context
.P
SendBthQP is the special QP value chosen by the driver to indicate packets with
a KDETH header, and remote_context is the specified remote receive context
number.  If a QP is specified either using the –Q parameter or in a packet
input file, its value is used as-is; the above formula is not applied.
.P
HCRC (Header CRC) is computed by the hardware and inserted into the KDETH header
if present.  Software can suppress the hardware HCRC insertion to use its own
HCRC value instead.  Regardless, the hardware will always check that the HCRC
value is correct.  The value of PbcInsertHcrc is set as follows.  If
.B DestQP >> 16 != SendBthQP
, PbcInsertHcrc is set to 2 (suppress hardware HCRC insertion).  Otherwise, it
is assumed that a KDETH header is present and HCRC should be inserted.  If
LRH.LNH == 3 (GRH present), PbcInsertHcrc is set to 1 (insert assuming GRH).
Otherwise, PbcInsertHcrc is set to 0 (insert assuming no GRH).
.P
The
.B -L
,
.B -C
and
.B -Q
options may be omitted to use the values specified in the packet input file.
Otherwise, these parameters can be used to override the defaults.
.P
The
.B -w
option can be used to wait and watch for errors on the sent packet.
However, it is not precise.  Errors from other senders using the same
send context may be caught.  Errors that occur after the buffer
credits are returned are not caught.  This option is only meaningful when used with the
.B -k
option
.TP 14
.BI -h
Display a short multi-line help message.
.TP 14
.BI -d \ number
Set the debug level for the program. The value is a bitmap of debug
levels. Note that setting high debug levels can render the system almost unusable.
.TP 14
.BI -U \ Unit
Specify an alternate device unit to use. For example, to use
.IR /dev/hfi1
specify `1'. The default is 0.
.TP 14
.BI -L \ LID
Set the destination LID.
.TP 14
.BI -C \ Context
Set the destination Context.
.TP 14
.BI -Q \ QueuePair
Set the destination Queue Pair (QP).
.TP 14
.BI -V \ VirtualLane
Set the Virtual Lane (VL).
.TP 14
.BI -S \ Service Level
Set the Service Level (SL).

.TP 14
.BI -c \ number
Specifies how many copies of the packets are to be sent. The packets are
sent in the order they appear in the file; then the entire sequence is
repeated. Specifying a count of -1 means forever (until terminated with the
.IR kill (1)
command or a keyboard interrupt).
.TP 14
.BI -k 
Use the kernel (diagpkt) interface for sending packets, instead of directly to
the hardware PIO send buffers.
.TP 14
.BI -r 
Check the receive queue and clear out (drop) any packets that arrive.
.TP 14
.BI -w
Wait for the buffer credits of the packet to be returned.  This option is for
the kernel interface only, it is ignored otherwise.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR hfi_pkt_files (5)
.BR hfi1_pkt_test (8)
.br
Additional documentation is available on the Intel website:
.br
http://www.intel.com/infiniband
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright (C) 2013, 2014, 2015. Intel Corporation. All rights reserved.
.br
Copyright (C) 2006, 2007, 2008. QLogic Corporation. All rights reserved.
.br
Copyright (C) 2006 PathScale, Inc.  All rights reserved.
.SH AUTHOR
Intel Corporation.
