.TH hfi_pkt_files 5
'Copyright (C) 2013, 2014. Intel Corporation. All rights reserved.
'Copyright (C) 2006, 2007, 2008, 2009. QLogic Corporation. All rights reserved.
'Copyright (C) 2006.  PathScale, Inc.  All rights reserved.
'This is not free software.
'Redistribution or modification is prohibited without the prior express
'written permission of Intel Corporation.
.SH NAME
hfi_pkt_files \- packet files for use with hfi1_pkt_send
.LP
These files are uses by
.BR hfi1_pkt_send (8)
to specify the packets to be sent. The files consist of hexadecimal
data and a few symbolic values, interspersed with comments.
.LP
Comments are introduced with
.B #
characters and continue to the end of line.
.LP
The end of a packet is indicated by a period in column 1, optionally
followed by one of several modifiers for special test modes.
.SH "RAW DATA"
hexadecimal input data is intended to be human-readable. Each pair of
hexadecimal digits is sent as one octet.
Multi-octet values (e.g. 12345678) are sent in the order left-to-right,
but simply by taking two octets at a time, so
.B 123 456
will send four octets:
.B 12 03 45 06
.SH "SYMBOLIC HEADERS"
In addition to straight hexadecimal data, some commonly used headers can be
specified via symbols. These are of two forms:
.LP
.B HDR
and
.B HDR(
.BI field=value
.B )
where
.LP
.I field
is one of the field-names recognized for each header (listed below).
.LP
.I value
can be decimal, octal or hexadecimal notation. Octal is denoted by a
leading zero and hexadecimal by the prefix
.B 0x.
.LP
Multiple fields can be specified within the parentheses, but all must be on one line.
Default values are used for any fields whose values are unspecified.
.LP



.TP 8
.B PBC
Per Buffer Control, includes fields
.RS 4
.TP 8
.B PbcLengthDWs
Packet Length in 32-bit words.
.TP 8
.B PbcVL
Virtual Lane
.TP 8
.B PbcFecn
Forward Explicit Congestion Notification
.TP 8
.B PbcTestBadIcrc
Hardware will intentionally insert bad ICRC
.TP 8
.B PbcInsertBypassIcrc
ICRC should be inserted for bypass packets
.TP 8
.B PbcCreditReturn
Request credit return update
.TP 8
.B PbcInsertHcrc
Control HCRC insertion policy
.TP 8
.B PbcPacketBypass
Indicates whether packet is a bypass format
.TP 8
.B PbcTestEbp
Hardware will intentionally set end-bad-packet

.TP 8
.B PbDcInfo
Single bit propagated to DC interface
.TP 8
.B PbcIntr
Generate an interrupt after packet has egressed
.TP 8
.B PbcStaticRateControl
16-bit value loaded into Static Rate Control Counter
.RE
.TP 8
.B LRH
Local Route Header, includes fields
.RS 4
.TP 8
.B VL
Virtual Lane
.TP 8
.B LVer
Link Version
.TP 8
.B SL
Service Level
.TP 8
.B LNH
Link Next Header (0=RAW, 1=IPV6, 2=BTH, 3=GRH)
.TP 8
.B DLID
Destination Local IDentifier
.TP 8
.B Len
Length in 32-bit words
.TP 8
.B SLID
Source Local IDentifier
.RE
.TP 8
.B GRH
Global Route Header, includes fields
.RS 4
.TP 10
.B IPVer
Internet Protocol Version
.TP 10
.B TClass
.TP 10
.B FlowLabel
.TP 10
.B PayLen
Payload Length
.TP 10
.B NxtHdr
Next Header
.TP 10
.B HopLimit
.TP 10
.B SGID
Source Global IDentifier
.TP 10
.B DGID
Destination Global IDentifier
.RE
.TP 8
.B BTH
Basic Transport Header, includes fields
.RS 4
.TP 8
.B OpCode
Operation Code
.TP 8
.B SE
Solicited Event
.TP 8
.B M
Migration request
.TP 8
.B PadCnt
Pad Count (octets added to fill last 32-bit word)
.TP 8
.B TVer
Transport Header version
.TP 8
.B P_Key
Partition Key
.TP 8
.B Resv1
Reserved, should be zero
.TP 8
.B DestQP
Destination Queue Pair
.TP 8
.B A
Acknowledgement request
.TP 8
.B Resv2
Reserved, should be zero
.TP 8
.B PSN
Packet Seqence Number
.RE
.TP 8
.B KDETH
Key Datagram Extended Transport Header, includes fields
.RS 4
.TP 8
.B KVer
KDETH Version
.TP 8
.B SH
Suppress Header
.TP 8
.B Intr
Interrupt
.TP 8
.B TIDCtrl
Token ID Control
.TP 8
.B TID
Token ID
.TP 8
.B OM
Offset Mode
.TP 8
.B OFFSET
Offset
.TP 8
.B HCRC
Header CRC
.TP 8
.B J_KEY
Job Key
.RE
.SH "TEST MODIFIERS"
Various modifications to the outgoing packet can be made by
appending to the packet-ending
.B '.'
character.  Many of these fields toggle bits in the PBC structure.
.RS 4
.TP 3
.B B
Force packet to be marked with an EBP (End Bad Packet) by setting PbcTestEbp.
.TP 3
.B I
Force an incorrect ICRC (Invariant CRC) by setting PbcTestBadIcrc.
.TP 3
.B H
Bypass hardware HCRC insertion, allowing the HCRC specified in the packet to be sent on the wire.  Sets PbcInsertHcrc = 2.
.TP 3
.B Y
Mark packet as a bypass packet by setting PbcPacketBypass.
.TP 3
.B C
Instruct hardware to insert ICRC for bypass packets by setting PbcInsertBypassIcrc.
.TP 3
.B N
Generate an interrupt after packet egress by setting PbcIntr.
.TP 3
.B D
Set the PbcDcInfo bit.
.TP 3
.B F
Set the outgoing packet's FECN value to 1 via the PbcFecn field.
.TP 3
.B P
Disable padding the length of bypass packets to a multiple of 8 bytes (quadword).
.RE
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR hfi1_pkt_send (8)
